OCPBUGS-11653: Update abstract for private DNS config module (#80597)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/private-clusters-setting-dns-private.adoc

Reviewer: This isn't a major issue, and I'm only bringing this up for you to possibly consider, but - this reads as a lot of conceptual info for the beginning of a procedure in my subjective opinion. Do you think it might be worth adding this in a new concept module, and then nesting the existing procedure under it?

It would create the issue of "what would I name the new module when it talks about the same topic as the procedure?", so there's that, but I thought I'd bring it up as food for thought!

Author: I think it's good as it is, just because I think adding a new concept module runs the risk of defeating the purpose of the original Jira, which someone had raised specifically for the purpose of adding context to this procedure. I would be worried that splitting it might result in too much separation, especially given uncertainty with changes to docs tooling. Appreciate you sharing your thoughts though!

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="private-clusters-setting-dns-private_{context}"]
= Configuring DNS records to be published in a private zone

For all {product-title} clusters, whether public or private, DNS records are published in a public zone by default.

> You can remove the public zone from the cluster DNS configuration to avoid exposing DNS records to the public. You may want to avoid exposing sensitive information, such as internal domain names, internal IP addresses, or the number of clusters at an organization, or you might simply have no need to publish records publicly. If all the clients that should be able to connect to services within the cluster use a private DNS service that has the DNS records from the private zone, then there is no need to have a public DNS record for the cluster.

Reviewer: Per [ISG word usage](https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#m), "may" should be reserved for indicating permission, and "might" should be used to indicate possibility:
```suggestion
You can remove the public zone from the cluster DNS configuration to avoid exposing DNS records to the public. You might want to avoid exposing sensitive information, such as internal domain names, internal IP addresses, or the number of clusters at an organization, or you might simply have no need to publish records publicly. If all the clients that should be able to connect to services within the cluster use a private DNS service that has the DNS records from the private zone, then there is no need to have a public DNS record for the cluster.
```

After you deploy a cluster, you can modify its DNS to use only a private zone by modifying the `DNS` custom resource (CR).
Modifying the `DNS` CR in this way means that any DNS records that are subsequently created are not published to public DNS servers, which keeps knowledge of the DNS records isolated to internal users. This can be done when you configure the cluster to be private, or if you never want DNS records to be publicly resolvable.

> Alternatively, even in a private cluster, you might keep the public zone for DNS records because it allows clients to resolve DNS names for applications running on that cluster. For example, an organization can have machines that connect to the public internet and then establish VPN connections for certain private IP ranges in order to connect to private IP addresses. The DNS lookups from these machines use the public DNS to determine the private addresses of those services, and then connect to the private addresses over the VPN.

Author: We use "might" per https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#may

.Procedure

> . Review the `DNS` CR for your cluster:

Reviewer: Out of scope to your changes but while you're here:
```suggestion
. Review the `DNS` CR for your cluster by running the following command:
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="private-clusters-setting-dns-private_{context}"]
= Configuring DNS records to be published in a private zone

For all {product-title} clusters, whether public or private, DNS records are published in a public zone by default.

> 

Reviewer 2: In my opinion, we want to start with the case where they are configuring DNS to be private, and follow it by the case where they don't want it to be private after all.

> You might use a public zone for DNS records in cases where you want to have a private cluster while still allowing clients to look up names for applications running on that cluster. For example, if an organization has machines that connect to the public internet, and establish VPN connections for certain private IP ranges in order to connect to private services. The DNS lookups from these machines use the public DNS to determine the private addresses of those services, and then connect to the private addresses over the VPN.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Even in a private cluster, you might keep the public zone for DNS records because it allows clients to resolve DNS names for applications running on that cluster. For example, an organization has machines that connect to the public internet, and establish VPN connections to connect to private services. The DNS lookups from these machines use the public DNS to determine the private addresses of those services, and then connect to the private addresses over the VPN.
```

Reviewer 3: Yeah, the current "for example" sentence fragment ends rather jarringly; modifying it to be a full sentence helps with that.  I'd also suggest removing the comma, and adding a "can" to express that this is a general possibility:

> For example, an organization can have machines that connect to the public internet and then establish VPN connections for certain private IP ranges in order to connect to private IP addresses.  

The text might also be clearer if you replaced "services" with another word, such as "applications" or "IP addresses", because we're not talking about Kubernetes services (which generally are unreachable outside the cluster even if you know their IP addresses); rather, we're talking about applications exposed using OpenShift routes and a private load-balancer or router virtual-IP address.

Conversely, you might use a private zone for DNS records to avoid exposing sensitive information contained in DNS records to the public. DNS records can include information such as internal domain names, internal IP addresses, or the number of clusters at an organization. You might also simply have no need to publish records publicly and want to avoid unnecessarily publishing DNS records.

> If all the clients that need to connect to services within the cluster use a private DNS service that has the DNS records from the private zone, then there is no need to have a public DNS record for the cluster.

Reviewer 2: I think the original looked more like this.  I edited it to fit some of the prose you used.

Remove the public zone from the cluster DNS config to avoid exposing DNS records to the public. You may want to avoid exposing sensitive information (internal domain names, internal IP addresses, or the number of clusters at an organization), or you might simply have no need to publish records publicly. If all the clients that should be able to connect to services **within** the cluster use a private DNS service that has the DNS records from the private zone, then there is no need to have a public DNS record for the cluster.

After you deploy a cluster, you can modify its DNS to use only a private zone by modifying the `DNS` custom resource (CR).

> Modifying the `DNS` CR in this way means that any DNS records that are created are not published to public DNS servers, which keeps knowledge of the DNS records isolated for internal users. This should be done when you configure the cluster to be private, or if you never want DNS records to be publicly resolvable.

Reviewer 3: I suggest adding "subsequently" to emphasize that the Operator doesn't automatically delete DNS records from the zone when you remove the zone from the CR, and changing "should" to "can" as it isn't strictly necessary to do for private clusters:
```suggestion
Modifying the `DNS` CR in this way means that any DNS records that are subsequently created are not published to public DNS servers, which keeps knowledge of the DNS records isolated to internal users. This can be done when you configure the cluster to be private, or if you never want DNS records to be publicly resolvable.
```

[id="private-clusters-setting-dns-private_{context}"]
= Setting DNS to private

> After you deploy a cluster, you can modify its DNS to only use a private zone by modifying the `DNS` custom resource (CR).

Reviewer 2: nit: 
```suggestion
After you deploy a cluster, you can modify its DNS to use only a private zone by modifying the `DNS` custom resource (CR).
```

> Modifying the DNS means that any DNS records that are created are not published to public DNS servers, which keeps knowledge of the DNS records isolated for internal users. This should be done when you configure the cluster to be private, or if you never want DNS records to be publicly resolvable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Modifying the `DNS` CR in this way means that any DNS records that are created are not published to public DNS servers, which keeps knowledge of the DNS records isolated for internal users. This should be done when you configure the cluster to be private, or if you never want DNS records to be publicly resolvable.
```

[id="private-clusters-setting-dns-private_{context}"]
= Setting DNS to private

> After you deploy a cluster, you can modify its DNS to use only a private zone, by modifying the `DNS` custom resource (CR).

Reviewer 2: nit: I would keep the spelled-out "custom resource" in later places, as not everyone reads the intro.

Author: This is specific to the docs guidelines for OpenShift and is common practice in our modules

> Because the Ingress Controller consults the `DNS` CR definition when it creates `Ingress` objects, when you create or modify `Ingress` objects, only private records are created. This secures the cluster by preventing public DNS records from being created.

Reviewer 2: I don;t think this line should be moved here, because that is taking it out of context.  It will only do this after you apply the patch this is listed below, where this was moved from.

I would not use the phrase "secures the cluster" because that is a guarantee we cannot make.

Author: ACK, moved back and removed "secures the cluster"

> After you deploy a cluster, you can modify its DNS to use only a private zone, by modifying the `DNS` custom resource (CR).
> Because the Ingress Controller consults the `DNS` CR definition when it creates `Ingress` objects, when you create or modify `Ingress` objects, only private records are created. This secures the cluster by preventing public DNS records from being created.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something like this, if @Miciah agrees with my re-interpretation:
```suggestion
After you deploy a cluster, you can modify its DNS to use only a private zone, meaning that any DNS records that are created are not published to public DNS servers.  This effectively keeps knowledge of the DNS records isolated for internal users.  This should be done when you configure the cluster to be private, or if you never want DNS records to be publicly resolvable.
```

Reviewer 3: Yes, that wording is more accurate than the original text.

Author: Awesome, thanks folks 🙏🏻

> Because the Ingress Controller consults the `DNS` CR definition when it creates `Ingress` objects, when you create or modify `Ingress` objects, only private records are created. This secures the cluster by preventing public DNS records from being created.

Reviewer 3: OpenShift doesn't create DNS records for ingress objects.  This text was probably supposed to say "`IngressController` objects".
 
```suggestion
Because the Ingress Operator consults the `DNS` CR definition when it creates DNS records for `IngressController` objects, the Operator only creates DNS records for zones that are specified in the `DNS` CR when you create or modify `IngressController` objects.
```

[IMPORTANT]
====

> DNS records for the existing Ingress objects are not modified when you remove the public zone.

Reviewer 2: @Miciah if existing Ingress objects are exempted, aren't Route objects exempted as well?

Reviewer 3: OpenShift doesn't create DNS records for ingress objects or for route objects.

+
Note that the `spec` section contains both a private and a public zone.

. Patch the `DNS` CR to remove the public zone:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch dnses.config.openshift.io/cluster --type=merge --patch='{"spec": {"publicZone": null}}'
dns.config.openshift.io/cluster patched
----
+
Because the Ingress Operator consults the `DNS` CR definition when it creates DNS records for `IngressController` objects, the Operator only creates DNS records for zones that are specified in the `DNS` CR when you create or modify `IngressController` objects.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> DNS records for the existing `Ingress` objects are not modified when you remove the public zone. {product-title} does not create DNS records for `Ingress` or `Route` objects.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Existing DNS records are not modified when you remove the public zone, so be sure to delete old public DNS records if needed.
```

+
Note that the `spec` section contains both a private and a public zone.

> . Patch the `DNS` CR to remove the public zone:

Reviewer: same comment as above:
```suggestion
. Patch the `DNS` CR to remove the public zone by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc patch dnses.config.openshift.io/cluster --type=merge --patch='{"spec": {"publicZone": null}}'

> dns.config.openshift.io/cluster patched

Reviewer: Definitely out of scope and not necessary for you to fix, but if you were interested - this line, which appears to be output, probably should be in its own `example output` block

Author: Great catch, fixed it since I could see this causing issues for users tbh! Thanks!

----
+
The Ingress Operator consults the `DNS` CR definition when it creates DNS records for `IngressController` objects. If only private zones are specified, only private records are created.
+
[IMPORTANT]
====

> Existing DNS records are not modified when you remove the public zone. You must manually delete previously published public DNS records if you no longer want them to be published publicly.

Reviewer: Not even sure what to think of as an alternative, but just want to note that "previously published public" is a bit of a tongue twister haha 😅

====

.Verification

> * Review the `DNS` CR for your cluster and confirm that the public zone was removed:

Reviewer: Same comment as before:
```suggestion
* Review the `DNS` CR for your cluster and confirm that the public zone was removed by running the following command:
```
